So I um.
I I did that comparison query in just
regular copilot and it came up with an
interesting list of differences between
Visual Studio Code and Visual Studio
implementations of of Copilot and
similarities similarities that they both
support agent mode and inline suggestions.
Next set of suggestions and the chat,
but there are some key differences.
Performance and responsiveness that
Visual Studio's implementation is.
Slower and large solutions has limited
context awareness as opposed to strong
project wild contact awareness.
It's a good thing is it's optimized for
the.net stack and C#.
The ecosystem is not as big and it's
heavier and slower to adopt new copilot
features.
I have seen incidents where things are
showing up in copilot and then and then
they trickle in from into Visual Studio
over time.
Their implementation of MCP is still
maturing.
The UIUX customizations are more rigid
and it and it requires more setup,
better for requires more setup,
but it's better for deep dot network.
I think the point that I was interesting,
many developers report needing to switch
between to VS code to fully utilize the
chat aware and context or capabilities.
This is my experience as well as when
I've been working on solutions that are
built in visual.
Studio that usually I find an occasion
where it's easier to switch over to
Visual Studio code in the same code base
and do some work there and then switch
back to Visual Studio for the things that
are better there.
So you might find yourself in that same.
Situation.
All right, so um.
Let's see,
we were talking about this is not the
right project. Yeah,
the code that we generated.
We want to take a look at some of the
changes that were made in terms of the
testing.
I see that test summary total is 7 and
does.
Code coverage was is now 3031%,
which is an improvement,
but that's not great, so we asked it to.
Do what?
We asked it to add more tests for corner
cases, divide by zero and the like.
And we can see here in our test file.
Is it smart enough to respond to a prompt
that would specify to add test to
increase coverage,
whatever the coverage to certain percent
and just?
Don't let her run with that.
Um, you see something like um.
Uh.
Yeah,
we want to add add test to increase code
coverage to let's say 50% as an example.
So I think right now it's at 30 and would
it run somewhere?
Yeah, that's very doable.
That's something that, you know,
something I do on a regular basis is,
you know, to and if you get the.
Mm-hmm.
Um.
If you get the the the the GitHub
integration working properly it will or
or for that matter and and Azure Azure
DevOps it will actually can actually
create the issues for you so but here we
see.
Mhm.
The add unit tests for evaluate or
arithmetic in edge cases.
I can bring this up,
additional arithmetic cases, etcetera,
acceptance criteria and notes.
So is it some sort of convention that you
call it issues?
No, I just,
I think that I think GitHub understands
what issues are. You could call it,
you know, you know.
Tas.
Or the like and and it puts,
let's see then um.
Mhm.
A GitHub issues folder.
I think and I may be incorrect,
but I think what you are showing us, John,
is how copilot can guide us to get to
better coverage.
And I think what Tom was asking was how
can we ask it to generate enough tests to
get us to 50% coverage?
Is that correct?
Yes, yeah, that was my intent. I'm lazy,
so I'm just, you know,
Yeah, so.
I I want it to work for me.
It's just like, hey, ideally 100%,
Yeah.
but I just want to get there, you know,
maybe in steps.
Sure.
I mean we could we have this issues file
now, so we could we could say pound sign.
You can see the list of issues here to
OK.
implement.
These tests.
And he will go about and do that
implementation for you.
Mhm.
Creating the issues is not a bad thing
because one you can,
you can review what you're being asked,
asking it to do in a little more detail
and see if it meets your expectations
there.
And it also gives you something to bounce
this back on and say, you know,
does this actually.
Test the functionality that it you're
expecting it to test because you know,
remember that first set of tests we did
did not actually test anything that we
did. It was it was a a false positive,
right?
Mhm.
So now it's gonna run those tests and.
And run our coverage.
So it's now adding some um.
Is that about the test?
And now we're going from 7 passing tests
to to to 12 passing tests.
So I guess, you know, in both cases,
you know it,
it will help you move in that direction,
right?
That's where you want to go and we can
see.
Here.
No.
Line rate is 82% and 50% so on on that
just on the evaluator test.
Overall, we only increased it by,
you know, a couple of percentage points.
So we would want to you know follow
through and and do the and do these one
by one.
The other thing I I would say is asking
it to say I just implement tests for the
whole project and bring me up to 50% is
going to generate a whole bunch of code,
right?
It's going to produce a lot of tests and.
Now your job is to to feel confident that
those tests are actually testing what
it's supposed to be testing, and it's not,
you know,
that has not created something that's
gonna that doesn't actually meet up to
your expectations.
By doing it this way,
we can keep our change sets down to a
smaller set of files that we need to
review and that would be I think,
and that makes it easier for us to to
move forward. You know,
use an iterative approach,
implement some tests.
Validate them, commit them,
move on to the next set of tests.
It would be my recommendation.
So now it's suggesting the next steps,
add integration tests, refactor,
evaluator processing, etcetera.
So what do we want to do next? I mean,
we basically what I have planned for the
rest of the day is to continue iterating
on this project and see how far we can
take it.
Do we want to continue on the code
coverage path and try to get code
coverage up to where it needs to be?
Or do we want to try to implement some
new features?
Is it possible,
and I don't know if anyone else wants to
go this real,
is it possible to ask it to generate a
build YAML file?
To be introduced within the CI CD
pipeline.
Sure, yeah, you can do that.
Like how to build it and then test it.
So Seth, what is it for?
So educate me just so I understand what
you're just asked for.
Sure.
So the general workflow is you define a a
thing to be done,
you do the necessary deeds to create,
and then you test it to make sure that it
runs as you expect it to and meet
acceptance criteria.
In the end you still have to.
Deliver that product consistently the
same way over and over again through
multiple iterations going forward.
So what you should define is the build
process. How do I build it?
What does it produce?
What do I do with that artifact?
How do I deliver it?
And then ultimately keeping track of your
historical records for testing?
It's for testing.
So a build pipeline within the CICD
process would be the next logical step
after the initial iteration to ensure
that you are refining an iterative
approach to the initial creation that
you're trying to deliver.
Alright.
So what it means if if somebody edits the
file, the source code,
in this particular case a calculator,
then the rest happens automatically in
M.
terms of building, verifying and.
Within your uh uh DevOps is.
Yeah, exactly.
All you have to do is access the repo,
That's that's fine, OK.
clone it,
and then you should be pointed to a file
to run and it would get you up to running
up to a point where you could actually
start working in the building.
OK, cool. Thanks.
Yeah,
and you know when I have my DevOps DevOps
hat on,
the pipeline is one of the very first
things I want to see working because then
you know from the very beginning you can
you can deploy into into an environment
that's independent of your dev
workstation.
And show people that it's running, right?
So I think that, you know,
even if it's only doing hello world,
it's great to have that pipeline up and
running and executing.
So here it's created a.
Uh, let's see where. Um.
Oh,
so we have a a code over the threshold.
Here's our YAML file for building.
Now this is a a a GitHub actions pipeline,
but you could do just the same for Azure
DevOps,
but it's basically defining when you push
a push to the branch main.
Or or pull from the do a pull request on
the main.
Then you're going to do a build and test
cycle where you check out the code,
set up the.net actions.
Restore the the project.
Build the project,
run the tests and see here we're doing
the.
net test calculator and running our
actual tests.
Install the report generator,
generate a coverage report,
upload that coverage report as an
artifact, enforce the coverage threshold.
So it's actually going to do some coding
here in the pipeline.
To actually verify that we've got 50%
coverage.
So that's a good start, right?
Sorry about that.
All right,
so we want to install the report
generator tool so we can.
And it looks like we're having some of
the same issues we had earlier.
We're tour setting and built it locally.
So the next steps would be on this to.
On GitHub actions,
the full workflow should run and generate
coverage report and enforce that coverage
threshold.
If you want the local smoke test to also
produce HTML reports,
we can adjust it to do that.
And and it wants to now push these
changes and and generate a PR.
So let's keep everything.
Here we still got a lot of changes that
we got stored up here so.
Why don't we go ahead and create a PR?
So one thing I haven't shown is the ask
and the edit modes.
I got a little bit ahead of myself,
so I'm going to switch back and just
demonstrate some of that and how it works
so that you're so that you're a little
more familiar with it.
So it wants to know what branch name.
We'll just call this the CICD.
So what do you want to do here?
You want to just create the branch called
CICD or create a branch called feature
CICD or just create the branch locally
and don't do a push?
I'll be feature.
Any idea?
Feature, yeah.
All right, let's do that.
That's all good. Get check out.
That should be fine.
We're seeing that I've had this issue
quite often.
In that it doesn't know it.
It ends up in the wrong directory and it
tries things in the wrong directory and
eventually it'll figure that out.
Oh, let's see.
And go ahead and begin to go ahead and
run those commands now in the terminal.
Mm-hmm. Looks like it had some problems.
And we can see we can see this command
terminal last command.
Now we've added the contents of the
terminal window into the chat.
I like this. It was an accidental paste.
So we can let's add it to.
Go ahead and create the R.
So.
And we'll execute the second batch.
Still having problems with that.
It looks like it's still trying to treat.
The summary of changes here and.
It's a,
but it's not recognized in the the syntax.
So let's try the terminal again,
see if we can get it to fix that.
So this is a fairly typical workflow
where you try something but it doesn't
have enough.
So what it wants to do is to aste the R
body.
John,
are you are you just trying to create a
pull request?
Is that what's what the issue is?
Yeah,
that's that's what that's what we're
stuck on right now is just creating this
pull request.
We can kind of skip that part and and
move on.
You could just make the body simpler,
right?
You don't need all that text in there.
Or we can just go to the portal maybe and
Right.
create it there manually.
We could do that too.
So,
so the purpose is to demonstrate how
through copilot we can do everything
automatically, right?
That's why we are trying to do it through
copilot.
Yeah,
we're just trying to show that we can do
that. So here it says that we could,
you know,
we have a PR body that we'd paste in.
and it's still not not liking that.
Yeah, I mean,
I can't tell why it doesn't like that.
If it's some kind of an escape character
or something missing or something not
initialized properly, I don't know.
Yeah, yeah, I'd have to figure that out.
So let's just, uh, we'll we'll um.
We'll see.
We'll skip on that for now or go into.
Um, let me see if I can bring up GitHub.
So reason pushes that looks about right.
So we could here do a a pull request.
We could go back here and grab the body.
I think that was right here.
And create that poll request.
close. All right.
What do you want to do next?
Do you want to see the pipeline run?
Yeah, I would like to see it.
Let's see. Uh, we've merged that back.
So it looks like it didn't quite work.
So let's see if we can.
So I just got a notice from GitHub,
GitHub that our our pipeline failed.
I would be really impressed if it worked
the first time.
Yeah.
Um.
So it says update the CI.
Let's say let's we'll fix.
It's still just a bad results.
So it's just like it's just a pathing
issue.
Turn my fix into a list.
But what is that list about?
I I missed that.
So um.
So when I I you type in fix,
it looks like there's a a conflict here
between two different MCP providers and
tools. One is in the workspace,
it's got a fix and Ms. SQL also has a fix.
And so I keep getting the MSSQL version
which causes me a problem.
So we select this and then we get at
workspace fix and we already have CI dot
YAML in the context here.
So we can go ahead and run that and that
should be enough to tell copilot that
we're trying to fix the pipeline and it
already knows or made recommendations on
what we should do to fix it.
So ask the user to write the exact source
file.
Uh, it's doesn't seems like um.
It's a little confused here.
So let's let's give it this command.
And so now it's making the changes to the
pipeline.
And it's fixing the report generator as
well.
And it test did a smoke test that looks
like that's working.
All right, so um.
No, we don't.
We try to create another file.
Let's keep our changes here and.
And we'll go ahead and see if we can
create that VR and my glutton for
punishing.
So it's going to create a.
A list of commands to execute as it did
before.
Yes.
All right, so we can go back to the top.
We can then run the get checkout.
And we're already on that branch,
so we're good.
Here we do the get add now we add the CML
file.
So did you do the checkout after you made
changes?
Locally.
Yeah, the changes. Yeah,
the changes are here.
OK.
Yeah,
I'm just used to creating the branch
first, then making changes.
Yeah, it works either way.
OK.
So we're gonna do a a a commit then.
And we're going to push the branch.
And this is the one that we've had issues
and it says I think afterwards.
So here it's going to try to create a
file.
Are there changes?
And it looked like it was able to create
a PR.
Here we're going to open up the PR and
see if we can see it.
So did you say it succeeded in creating
the PR?
I think it's exceeded. Oh.
So.
Yeah, it looks like.
It says it could not resolve to a
repository, so this command.
Yeah, that's what surprised me.
Like if it if it succeeded in creating,
It doesn't look like your work.
why can it not view it?
Well, we can.
We can go to GitHub and ask see what.
So it didn't create the PR.
I I think there may be something
misconfigured between VS code and GitHub.
I'm just guessing here.
I don't know for sure,
but it looks like something's missing
there.
Right.
So we could go and say, um.
A new pull request like we did last time.
So now we'll get to see if this.
So, so I don't know about everybody else,
but to me personally,
it's actually not that important that we
get this working.
I'm more interested in the concepts of
what it can do.
'Cause I I'm not specifically familiar
with all the GitHub insurance and out.
Yeah.
So what I'm trying to say here is that,
you know, getting a pipeline working,
sometimes there's a lot of tinkering
involved with or without copilot.
In terms of, you know,
aligning the environment, authentication,
relative paths.
Correct. YAML all these things.
So I I don't know.
2.
I'm just saying to me it's not that
important that this this actually turns
green. I I get the ideas.
Yeah. So let's continue on and.
And some new capabilities.
So let's look at our readme file and see.
What?
I was gonna commit our changes here that
we have.
Let's get a commit message.
All right, so let's clean that U.
And then let me go back to our file list.
Uh, read me as an error right there.
Uh, that's a different read me.
All right, well, let's do this.
Let's run the tests.
And see where it's in the same place we
were before.
Yeah, it's about the same.
So we have these instruction file or
these files over here for issues that we
wanted to go through.
We've done one of them.
Why don't we go ahead and do the second
one?
So let's open that file U #2.
Let's close everything else down.
And then say uh.
The integration tests? Yeah, sure.
Alright, So what do we change?
Program dot CS we've made a modification
to.
And in our unit test file we've added
some more tests to the bottom integration,
evaluate and rint.
Print it and print error.
And voila, we've got.
54% touch coverage now.
So that's cool.
So how does how the integration testing
is different from the tests that we've
run previously without consider like unit
tests?
So since we don't have for this
calculator,
at least I haven't seen the kind of
overall environment.
That this calculator would interface with,
so I'm just trying to understand the
See.
difference.
So this is also something that's I I it's
useful is that if you go into a piece of
Yes.
code and you say.
Control I it will bring up this prompt
inside of the.
Editor itself and then you can type a
command that and also also let's go ahead
explain this test and this will give us a
a better sense of what this actually does
Mhm.
and then we can ask it to you know how is
this different from a unit test.
Mm-hmm.
So it's.
So Ms.
test suite exercise to the calculator
evaluator.
Few notes.
Very basic integer precedence and
fraction test divide by zero.
It's giving us some help there.
So it looks like it added.
So what I'm reading out this is what it's
saying is that it's this test is does not
will not do any mocking of any other sub
dependencies that we would have here and
would just call those dependencies and
expect those to execute whereas a unit
test.
Would mock out any dependencies.
I don't think we've gotten to the point
Oh.
where we've actually needed that.
So I think at this point.
Mhm.
And we would,
I think we would want our integration
test to you know to actually do follow an
actual deployment into an environment
that can be tested independently or just
what I've seen also is that the that we
Mhm.
can stand up.
We can we can we can run this locally and
then test an test an API from that.
It's through like a rest call.
OK, um.
What I Yeah, let me show you this example.
Let's see. Let's say using.
Test alright.
So here I'm saying I want to I want to
use test development to actually create
the test before the implementation.
And then say do not implement.
Mhm.
The future.
So here are the expectation is that we're
going to get some failing tests.
I hear it saying.
Mhm.
Sharing saying he's gonna add some
failing tests and then he's gonna run
this test suite to show the failing tests.
So here we have a memory test file that
it's created that has these new tests.
And now it's running the test and it says
failed with four errors.
And if we look at these tests,
we can see the evaluator remembers the
last results as answer.
And here it's calling the.
Here's it showing a test where it's
checking the the previous answer plus one.
And.
And then if you use this answer operator
before you have have an actual answer of
a calculation, it will throw an exception.
And it looks like all of those tests have
failed.
So then we could say, OK,
let's keep those changes.
And let's go ahead and say.
OK.
Implement the memory.
feature.
So now it's working on the actual
implementation,
which is the evaluator dot CS file.
You can see that it's made a change there.
Here we see if it doesn't have a value
that it goes to our exception.
And here it stores it to remember the
last results.
Looks like poor tests are still failing.
All right, so it's trying again,
and now all the tests are passed. No,
No one test is failing.
And now looks like we're all good.
Then let's um.
Show the code coverage.
Yeah.
And it's telling us a good way.
So now we're at 54% is to suggesting that
we add additional code coverage.
Let's add more tests to raise the
coverage.
And this is a common pattern where like I
said,
it writes the test and it doesn't pass
and then it it will eventually figure out
what it needs to do to get the test to
pass.
Like 89%.
So here it's gonna wants us to install
the report generator tool.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And see if we can get a HTML report out
of this.
So we should see.
So OK, so here's the coverage report now.
And it could show us, you know,
where we have good coverage and where
we're lacking.
It's giving us a little bit of a warning
about cyclomatic complexity.
All right. Any questions on this?
All right, what's next?
What do you want to do next?
Well, if we have no new ideas,
then what is your next idea?
What's on the agenda?
Why don't we add a log of the
calculations that we're performing?
That way we can list the calculations.
That makes sense.
Sure.
So let's see using KED.
Alright,
so I'm saying using TDD create test for a
new log feature that can list the prior
calculations.
That looks like guys.
Oh,
here's a this is a new feature that
showed up.
It's called a restore checkpoint.
It's a way of backing up or going back to
a previous set of changes.
So you'll see in our list here.
There'll be other checkpoints.
And you can go back to any of these
checkpoints.
That's a great new feature.
All right, So what is it doing now?
All right, it's failed with two errors.
What test have failed?
The log test CS history records usage as
an expression.
Fails and I think one before that.
Uh,
is it a test for invoking it with no
arguments?
So I think we want to do both of these.
Let's go ahead and update it and then
rerun the tests.
So over here there's a a chat sessions
icon.
And here we have a individual chat
session that you can actually rename and
this will keep a history of what you did
in that chat as well.
So it looks like it wrote an
implementation that the tests are now
passing and we have a coverage report.
So I think if we went back to.
What did find that index file here?
Doesn't look like.
It changed that. What? What did it change?
Change the test?
And the calculator.
Alright, so let's uh.
Run the test and report back.
Um, it's reading the coverage file now.
Coverage has increased to 90%.
Why don't we run the app?
All right,
so I ran it once with the passing in 2 +
3 and got 5 and now we're in the in the
calculator.
Um.
O How do we see the memory?
Just type in ANS.
So ANS.
Lus 4.
Wait, did you?
You need to perform a calculation first,
Oh, so.
Right, right.
right?
The alias times 8.
What about capital A lower case NS?
OK, good.
No, that's didn't show. No,
that's not what we were asking for.
I was asking for a list.
I would wanted to see.
I would want to see 9 + 4.
And then ants plot times 8 in a list.
Let's, uh, ask.
So here here's a good example.
Now it it interpreted us that we want to
see this in the output.
So it has created an output transcript
now that shows us all the calculations
that we did.
Which was different than what I was
expecting. So it shows I think how.
Are what we ask it to do may not be what
we get because we weren't more specific
enough about what we asked,
what we're asking for, says.
So what we can do is say that's fine to
see this, but.
Let's.
Um.
What we want to do is for a new log.
Command.
That can list the prior calculations.
Another interesting thing about working
with AI assistance is that it's
non-deterministic,
which means every time I ask it to create
this solution, I get a different answer.
I get a different implementation.
Sometimes it will it will.
Add the commands automatically and
sometimes it it it waits for you to
prompt it to do so.
So now we have a new test and it's
failing.
All right,
so go ahead and imlement the log commands.
So here we can see the new lock command.
And we can see that it.
Ran the tests and all the tests are now
passing.
We just and and also notice it inferred
from that we would want a clear command
to clear the history.
And if we run the.
We'll just.
Let's do.net run.
Here's our calculator.
We can give it an info calculation.
We can use the answer.
Multiply that by three.
And we can then say log.
And see that it's remembered our our
calculations.
And not too bad.
Any other ideas you want to try?
All right. Um.
I I don't have an idea for features for
the calculator, but I have questions like.
Go ahead.
Did you pick GPT 5 mini intentionally or
is that automatically picked for you
based on the ecosystem here?
I picked it intentionally because it was
listed as one of those.
Free ones and I thought I'd give it a try,
see what it did.
OK.
So what?
What about like let's say you ask it a
difficult question and then you say ask
the exact same question 5 minutes later.
Does that cost you one token or two
tokens?
And that would be two cocons or two
requests.
The tokens, OK.
Got it.
And um.
I don't know.
I don't know how familiar everyone is
with Git and pending changes and you know,
GitHub, Copilot, like GitHub actions,
all that stuff.
And I don't know if we should talk about
that as part of this training at all, but.
Maybe useful if we got into that a little
bit.
Like see when I'm when I'm coding like on
the left side,
we have those things turning brown and
green. This is all pending changes, right?
So you run a let's say you start with
nothing, you ask a question,
it changes a bunch of stuff.
I I'm I'm kind of trying to get at the
strategy of how to operate as a developer
when you have to context switch.
How do you handle like context switching
and maybe generating an answer with one
model then another model and.
Comparing them quickly,
do you create like separate branches or
do you do it within the same branch or I?
What I what I've done and I we can do an
example of this tomorrow is that you
create you create.
What I do then is create 2 branches right
Oh, OK. It's a while. Sorry.
and then use one model to implement the
solution on that on one branch and then
another model to implement the solution
on another branch.
And then potentially a third model to
compare the two branches and tell you
what the pros and cons of each
implementation is.
And it's interesting cuz I run this
comparison occasionally and the model I
usually typically use ChatGTP versus.
Claude and it goes back and forth.
They've been implementing the same
feature using basically the same basic
instructions and each one of them kind of
leapfrogs each other in terms of
producing.
Better results.
So it's kind of a test that's fun to do
on a regular basis to to in order to,
you know,
see if you're using the the the model
that's giving you the best results.
And um.
OK.
Let me let me while we're thinking about
that.
Um.
All right.
OK.
And I have a similar general question on,
you know this is a copilot training
primarily,
but are there other tools that are kind
of like copilot and which one would you
pick and why?
I I yeah, there are other tools.
I'm trying to remember the names of them,
but I know that like ChatGPT has one and
there's a a couple of other ones that if
you search for them you'll find them
pretty easily.
But I spend my whole day working.
You know,
my day job is actually writing code and
finding solutions for our clients.
So I spend most of my time in Visual
Studio Code as my IDE,
so it's more convenient for me to.
To focus on that right now.
So here at the top performance it says
Chat TV4 Turbo with Open AI.
It's it's very capable Cloud 3 Opus
strong reasoning Gemini 1.5.
Copilot remains the dominant dominant IDE.
So these kinds of questions that I think
OK. Thanks.
are pretty pretty easy to get answers to
nowadays,
you know the without having to go through.
I think um.
Well,
it sounds like if I have unlimited
questions then I can just start asking
copilot everything.
I don't actually need to talk to people,
right?
Well.
What?
How can we add the UI to this calculator
quickly? Is that feasible?
Yeah, sure. I had one here. I was.
Like other than the console.
Um.
Yeah,
I was gonna say you could get into higher
level functions like trig or log or stuff
like that.
Right, I was.
So that would be easy to do.
So take a minute.
So let's jump back to our.
Overview of the models.
And you know,
this is something that I'm interested in
keeping up on in that.
You know, things are always,
things are always changing.
So from the different models, everything,
you know,
there's new releases coming out and
tweaks on them.
So occasionally hallucinates APIs.
You know,
if you don't provide enough context,
it's definitely a case where where it
will assume that there's a function that
exists that doesn't actually exist in the
API and it'll have to go back and fix
that.
I was working on a project where.
The.
The code for the UI was in one repository
and the code for the back end API was in
another repository,
so they it was difficult to have them
both In Sync and they would fall out of
sync on a regular basis.
So if I found a defect for example in the
UI and I would ask the the UI chat,
what is the root cause of this problem?
And if it pointed the finger to the back
end.
I would say,
well create a prompt that I can give to
the back end that will allow to debug and
troubleshoot and fix the problem and it
would spit out a documentation that I
could take and paste that into the other
project.
And then that would give it enough
conference to be able to actually verify
that the defect existed there and and and
fix it.
And I even had an occasion where it
looked at the prompt and said this is not
our problem,
this is actually a problem on the front
end and.
Pointed the finger back to the the AI to
the front end API. That was interesting.
All right, so it's.
So it's made a assumption here about what
we said about logs.
Oh, what is? What did it do?
So we got a a bunch of stuff here,
so looks like it's trying trying to
figure out what log means now.
So here we added a comment that we're
supporting sines, cosines, trans,
etcetera.
We've.
Added string functions that represent
those in the calculator since we don't
have buttons to push.
We've added support in our tests for some
of these new.
Features.
Mhm.
Alright, so let's um.
Generate a generate the coverage report.
Do we get to see that?
That's here.
So we're still around.
90% for the actual calculator function
and.
Eighty-eight percent in the evaluator and.
All right, so that seemed to go well.
Keep those changes.
That's um.
Let's push these changes in. So let's uh.
Create a commit message.
And let's push those changes.
So the next suggestion was to try to
create a UI for this, right?
Oh, it's just an idea.
I don't know if it's a good one, though.
We'll see.
Any technology you want to write it in?
Oh.
I don't know WPF.
This might take a a little bit.
Maybe wants to create the new project.
We see here we've created a new WPF
project.
And.
It'll be interesting to see to to see
what the UI looks like when it actually
if it actually shows up because we we've
not given given it any any guidance in
terms of what it should look like.
While we're waiting for.
Well, I'm expecting it. I'm sorry, Jake.
Go ahead.
Oh yeah, I just had a question about.
So like, this is a pretty small.
Like amount of code that we're working
with right now,
is there like if you start working with
like much much larger like sections of
code, does that start becoming a problem?
Like how, how,
like how should you like limit how much
code that you know?
Language model has to process.
Um.
Yeah, I know that there's limits.
I don't know exactly what those limits
are,
but I've worked with fairly sizable
implementations where there's, you know,
a a a big back end, a big front end,
a lot of UI, a lot of business rules,
and I've not run into any particular
issues with it.
With those kind,
but I know that people have much bigger
projects than those that have to segment
out and you can.
You can do that by a number of different
ways.
When you could specify that you only want
to have it focus on the files that are in
a particular folder for instance,
so you could.
Or in a particular project and say, OK,
I want this operation to just affect the
files or in this one part of the
application and that would that's really
easy to do. Here it wants to.
Edit some files.
But let it do it in the session.
So if you just like say you have like
some project with like maybe like 100
files in it,
would you just go into the chat window
and say like tell me where?
So you know there's like a calculator
implemented somewhere in the app.
You could just say there's a calculator
somewhere in here and it has this bug
where the plus.
Button doesn't work.
You could just like let it loose like
that or you'd sort of target it a little
more.
You might have luck with with with it
being loose like that. Um.
OK.
But it looks like it succeeded in
something.
Wire enter key to evaluate and clear the
input. Can we?
And.
Run the UI.
That's what we get.
Oh, I see what it did.
I was expecting a calculator with buttons.
So uh, we'll just see if it does anything.
OK, this is basically a UI of the console.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I still it's a UI, OK.
You have to hit the value key. So yeah,
so that's not expected and you could come
back here and say I.
Or we can just say change it to the one
that looks like a real calculator.
The tools.
Let me uh.
Keep the changes I already made.
Hey John,
is there a way to control how much output
this tax tax in the chat window?
Can we control how much it output to
their here?
If I don't want so much information,
can I let me?
Nintendo.
Yeah,
you can specify that to to produce a
minimal amount of context in your prompt
or or to be more precise or concise in in
your and it will do less reporting back
to.
But you may want to actually have that
content and save that content so so you
have a record of what you actually what
you did and what the AI did more
importantly.
OK. Thank you.
Oh,
it's making some suggestions on what we
should do next, which is me.
It wants some UI improvements.
So expression display to replace the
expression results. Clear history,
a long press and hold behaviour or
keyboard shortcuts.
Swap the SDK to Microsoft.net SDK.
To remove a a a a warning for
modernization,
but what I want to see is yeah, run the.
UI.
And what do we have? We have buttons.
OK.
Oh, I see that to make the window bigger.
So I got a question. Whenever we're done,
we're ready for the next step.
Yeah.
Sure. So that seems to work. OK,
we can say answer,
but I don't think that's gonna work.
And then we can tell you.
So it looks like we have a problem that
we need to clear the.
When you do the square of the answer.
And we got our history log.
We can.
So there's a lot of UI improvements to
make that it's suggested and we can think
of as well. But you had a question, Jake.
Yeah, no, Seth, this is Seth.
I had a question.
So can we run the unit test coverage
again to see what the changes are and
then if possible,
see if it can generate a automation
Sure.
framework to test out the new UI
introduction?
All right, well, let's just start with um.
The coverage.
Update the code coverage.
So we just did a commit 15 minutes ago
and already modified 49 files.
So you can kind of get a sense that we.
We you need to stop and kind of figure
out where you're at,
or else you'll end up with a huge commit
that involves a lot of functionality that
needs to be tested. So let's go ahead and.
Run that.
But this is a good example of wide coding
where we're just really not paying too
close attention and it it looks like our
code covers is going down.
Because we were at 90% the last time that
we ran it.
um So how about?
Implement.
Test for the UI.
So,
so we didn't tell how we wanted these
tests to be implemented.
It's picked us a solution on its own.
Still having problems with the build.
Now we're U to 85 files.
Updated the test project,
added main window tests,
run WPFUI tests on the SDA thread.
Test that the evaluate button computes an
expression.
Test that pressing the seven button aends
7 to the expression.
Fix the main window to ensure the eval
button has a a a name so the test can
find it and ran the test and regenerated
the coverage report. All tests pass.
There's 27 tests.
And there's a coverage report that we can.
Show in a browser.
Test coverage went down.
It's telling us here we have what is a
crap score?
Score.
That we have a good amount of cyclomatic
complexity that.
There's some issues with our tests.
We can see here that the W PIP app
doesn't doesn't look like it tested much
of anything.
That it tested the main window.
How's? How's that for you?
That's very interesting.
So the the purpose of this exercise was
to give you a sense of what it's like to
go through the process,
but I think you might get the impression
it's a little bit, a little bit scattered,
a little bit.
Um.
Ad hoc in terms of its nature,
one of the prompts I'd like to run here.
Let's keep everything. Let's do a commits.
Uh.
John, John, sorry, I was talking.
I was on mute. When you ran this test,
Yeah, yes.
did the app actually pop up on the other
screen that I missed or was this all this
No, it didn't pop up. It was all done.
It was all headless. Yes. Yeah,
was all headless? OK.
I would have dragged it over if I would
have saw.
All right.
OK. Thanks.
Sure.
All right, so let's get these.
While I was committed.
You know, it's slowing down a bit.
I think it's mostly because we've been
building up our context as we've been
going along.
We haven't really started anything new
since we started this process and so it's
continually adding to our window context
window.
So one one detail I just noticed there,
there was a PDB file that you just
committed.
Did you actually initialize this repo
Yeah.
with some Visual Studio specific
gitignore file?
Um.
Because you may be,
you may be committing all the binaries
I don't know. I I didn't.
that we should not.
No, I did not create one.
That's probably why would the number of
file calc has gone on. So that would,
you know,
Yeah.
that would be something that we would
want to change, right?
I think so.
Um.
So.
Who?
Who's heard of the of the concept of
Evergreen code?
What kind of green?
Evergreen.
No, I will.
Yeah,
and so Evergreen code is the concept that
you know you when you start a project,
it's Greenfield, it's brand new,
just like we're doing here.
This is all brand new code and over time
it moves from Greenfield to brownfield
and becomes more legacy code.
And we'll talk a lot about legacy.
I'm dealing with legacy code tomorrow,
but and the goal when we're dealing with
code is to keep it Evergreen,
and we'll talk again in more detail about
this tomorrow about what it takes.
But the idea is that it stays in a state
where if you were to restart it and
create it from.
Scratch again.
It'd be close to what you already have,
so I'm going to try a prompt here that
says in the code base.
Show me where this code is not Evergreen.
Oh, I should probably put code base there.
Now I haven't really told it what
Evergreen is,
but it will make based on the model and
based on the training of the data,
it will figure out some definition of
what it thinks Evergreen is and it will
then report back.
Where this application is not Evergreen.
So if it finds anything in this project
that it deviate from that,
we've in fact I've created legacy code.
Right.
We've incurred a technical debt that we
have to fix.
So, so,
so if we just did this and it knows
what's not Evergreen,
why didn't it generate it right away as
Because we didn't tell.
We didn't tell it to.
Evergreen?
And that's what we'll get in tomorrow is
how do we tell it to keep our code in a
in a much better state than what what
we're able to do here.
So even if we do vibe coding,
we'll get a better output than what we'll
get now.
But you have a look at the things that
it's found, right? No,
it's notice here it founded the get
ignore problem.
You just mentioned.
Um.
So there are some things that we can do
to improve it.
Add coverage report to the gitignore,
use a tool manifest,
move the UI test into a separate project,
add cover with filters.
Change the WFSDK to use themicrosoft.
net SDK.
But larger things replace the data table
dot compute with a proper math expression
evaluator.
Add the CI changes to run the UIA test
only on Windows runners and publishers
that covers our artifacts.
Hard-coded strings and tests.
Explicit internal,
explicit internals visible to usage.
Tests that assume a GI environment.
Um.
Generated source files included in
coverage.
That's fragile expression evaluation,
hard coded environment specific paths
inside of our logs.
Coverage generated HTML is committed in
the repo.
Uh code,
global tool usage and repo level tool
assumptions.
Platform specific target framework in a
test project.
Use of the Windows Desktop SDK where a
modern SDK was recommended.
And pin package versions in the press
project require manual updates.
So it it it lists,
you know what the files that are included,
why they're not ever considered Evergreen,
and what the remediation steps are for
all of those things that we've done.
And to me,
this is like where the real power of
working with A comes into play,
cuz not only is it telling us or writing
a bunch of code for us,
but it wrote a bunch of code that's less
than maintainable or not as good as it
could have been.
And what we want to talk about tomorrow
when we get is to talk working with.
Legacy code is how to bring that legacy
code back to a more of an Evergreen state,
so that and how to keep it in that.
More importantly,
keep it in an Evergreen state so that
every change that we make is done in
accordance with the standards that
conform with Evergreen development
processes.
And we end up with in a situation where
we can,
we can move faster in these projects.
We don't,
we don't have any technical debt that we
incur, which is, you know,
if you talk about the nice to have a
backlog.
A great deal of that nice to have work is
gonna be technical debt.
And in projects that I've worked in the
past,
sometimes a project will allocate 10% or
20% of the story points for an iteration
to dealing with technical debt.
Well,
that is not an Evergreen strategy because
you're adding more technical debt than
you're fixing.
So this is what we want to talk about in
the next two days is how to.
Take a look at a legacy code base,
how to look at what is in that code base
OK.
and see where there are issues in that
code base that need to be addressed,
and then how do we go about addressing
those those issues?
So any any final questions before we wrap
it up for the day?
Do do you have such a legacy code base
that we can use?
We have one right in front of us.
We could use this one,
but I have one that I have which I took
from an early iteration of a project from
code and as I suggested before,
if you go looking on GitHub for a project
in C that has.
A lot of issues that are pending.
There's a good chance that that code base
is not Evergreen,
and there are going to be things that we
need to do to update that code base and
we could take a stab at actually a code
base that none of us are familiar with
and try to see how much we can improve it
in two days.
Go on.
OK. Yeah,
I do have one more general question.
So let's say.
Sure, sure.
Let's say you wanted to prevent a
developer from injecting more tech depth.
Is there some kind of a plugin in GitHub
Enterprise that you can use to make that
happen?
This may have nothing to do with Copilot.
But I'm not sure.
Well,
what you could do is this output here
identifies all of the things that need to
be addressed. If you save this to a file,
you could actually have a CI process run
the same prompt that we ran here to
produce this file.
And compare the two and make sure that
nothing else gets added to this, right?
And if it sees something,
you could actually break the build and
say we've added technical debt.
We need to be, we need to, you know,
you need to go back and figure out how to
get rid of at least not raise the bar or
or increase the amount of technical debt
that you have in your project and always
looking to try.
To move it back.
So that's another good technique is in
your pipeline you could actually run
prompts,
get results and then make decisions on
those results about the state,
how the state